if you would have said to me 10 years
ago that i'd be having this conversation
publicly first off that i knew that i'd
be married
i wouldn't have believed you that i'd
have be having kids i wouldn't have
believed you that i would be willing to
talk about this or even someone that
even someone that someone else might
look to to help map it for them i'd say
you were completely insane
um this is not really something you know
i'd rather talk about politics i'd
rather talk about the culture wars and
all of these other things this is a
political party
because we're trying to sketch out
a pathway i suppose i mean our culture
appears to have decided that
gay marriage is
well i don't know if acceptable is the
right word it's become part of the
structure of marriage itself and so now
the question is
okay what does that mean
[Music]
hello everyone i'm here today with my
colleague and my friend
mr dave rubin host of the reuben report
a top ranking online talk show known to
many of you
he's an author comedian and tv
personality best known for his political
and cultural commentary mr rubin began
his career like so many people in the
online world as a stand-up comedian and
continues to perform on stage in that
guys
throughout the us
in an effort to combat big tech
censorship reuben founded locals.com a
subscription-based
digital platform that empowers creators
to be independent by giving them control
over their content and data something we
could all use dave's first book don't
burn this book thinking for yourself in
an age of unreason was a new york times
bestseller his second book don't burn
this country surviving and thriving in
our woke dystopia was published by
penguin random house on april 12 2022
dave and i
got to know each other first when he was
one of the earliest public figures to
support my efforts on the fight against
compelled speech in canada and elsewhere
and then more deeply when he opened for
me in 125 cities
during my 2018 book tour i concentrated
during that tour talking to my audiences
on many issues pertaining to
responsibility and meaning
including
family life and that's what we're going
to talk about today
mr rubin currently resides in miami with
his husband david janet and their rescue
dog
clyde
good to see you dave it's good to see
you my friend i have to say this this
feels a little bizarre to me we've done
so many of these in so many different
cities and countries and different
chairs and on skype and zoom in every
which way and i'm usually reading your
bio i know i know this is bizarre i know
i don't usually interview you but we we
talked together a couple of weeks ago
you have big changes coming up in your
life and we talked about having a
serious conversation about that i know
that please correct me if i'm saying
anything that isn't accurate
a lot of what i talked about when we
were together on the 2018 tour was the
responsibility or the meaning that's
inherent in responsibility and the kind
of meaning that sustains people through
crisis and catastrophe and
part of my
the propositions i was putting forward i
suppose was that most of that meaning is
to be found in responsibility especially
to other people
and i talked a lot about the role of
family in people's lives and at that
point you really hadn't been considering
children not seriously although your
partner your husband
was more
committed to that than you were
you said you've told me that your views
changed to some degree at least in part
as a consequence of us communicating
over the course of that entire year so
maybe you could fill people in on that
front and let let them know what's
happening yeah sure well
so david and i
met 13 years ago yesterday and i know it
was yesterday because we met on my
birthday believe it or not it was on my
birthday and then i got an even weirder
one for you it was at the gay pride
parade in new york city which
now they've become sort of these sort of
crazy circuses but back then it wasn't
quite like that but i actually literally
remember when he walked into the room
and he was wearing an american flag tank
top which i'm pretty sure you can't wear
to a pride parade anymore but in any
event uh we've been together for about
12 years we've been married for seven
years and i'm 46 now so i grew up in a
time when
i never even first off i struggled with
my sexuality for a long time partly
we've discussed this i felt
you know people
it's sort of like a homer simpson quote
that i love and i know you can do the
simpsons thing all the time uh i like my
beer cold and my homosexuals flaming and
i sort of thought that was what it meant
that gay
even though i was attracted to men that
gay meant something else gay men like
you like the theater or you like to
dance or you like madonna or something
and i didn't really care for any of
those things so i really had some some
distance between my feelings and and my
attractions and sort of the way the
world could map to that so to speak
and as a as a gen xer um there was
nothing we never talked about gay
marriage you didn't even talk about
anything gay there was nothing you know
growing up in the 90s there were there
was no role model to look at um you're
the only person that i ever saw on
television that made any sense to me was
in two episodes of the golden girls
blanche's brother comes out as gay and
he marries a cop this is 1991 nbc prime
time obviously gay marriage wasn't legal
for another 30 years or something but so
i had no role models i had no nothing so
i sort of just never thought about
getting married having a family
truthfully and i didn't even realize
this until we were on tour
i never thought of the future
i sort of thought of my present all the
time
and then when we were on tour
flash forward a bit david and i got
married and even when we got married we
never really talked about
having kids or even what a family meant
we knew we we love each other and we
have a great time together and you know
we love the same things and i think in
most ways we bring out the best in each
other
um sometimes we bring out the worst in
each other and that probably that's
probably good you're married exactly um
but then
right around when we were on tour so now
this is 2018.
uh david started talking about having
kids and we were texting a lot about it
while we were on tour and then i'm with
you on you know on stage every night as
you said in 125 cities for about a year
and a half and you're constantly talking
about the importance of family and the
importance that for most people and this
is the way you would always say it it's
hard to quote jordan peterson exactly
but
something to the effect of that for most
people to live a fully actualized life
that being a parent is a integral part
of that it is only there's almost no
exceptions to that you would always make
a point there are some exceptions you
might yeah but you have to be
exceptional to to have an exception to
that so yes maybe it's a third job and
career and that sort of service to the
broader community and it's a third year
intimate relationship and then it's a
third children and family
um and those proportions can vary but if
you miss one of those there's a big gap
to fill and maybe you can fill it you
know if you if another one of your
endeavors has the expansive quality
necessary to occupy two-thirds of your
time
more power to you i suppose but it's a
big risk and so you also told me dave
when we were talking about this before
that you
you started to think about being older
as well and i suppose that
then that with your concentration on the
present and the lack of role models that
there was no real vision for what it
might be like to
well to grow old in the gay community i
suppose yeah and you know it's funny i i
the gay community i i hate that phrase i
know even even as you said it it's like
it doesn't mean anything to me i don't
think of you as part of the straight
community you know it's just one of
these things we say these things we
don't even know exactly why we're saying
them but i didn't have that role model i
didn't have that there was no map there
really brotherhood of the marginalized
yes that's a group i could be part of i
suppose in some bizarre sense um but
even that is sort of nauseating i guess
um but but so we're on tour together and
david's texting me and we're going back
and we're talking on the phone and we're
face time and it just keeps coming up
and you keep talking about this on stage
and on top of everything else i'm
meeting all of the people that are
attending the shows and you know this
the amount of people that were in new
families or that the
wife was pregnant for the first time and
i'm seeing the joy on these people's
faces all of this is hitting me and then
you keep saying this thing that for most
people they have to do it but there are
these exceptions and i kept thinking
well wait a minute could i be the
exception that i could live a fully
actualized best possible life without
having kids and at the same time be
married to someone who wants kids that
then what am i even married for well
right right well that does beg that
question right so now these are these
things are really hitting each other
and
because i had nev because the map wasn't
there the road map just wasn't there i
started going man i really have to think
about this now and i remember one night
we were on you were on stage and you
know i had the best seat in the house
every night because i'm just off stage
left so i'm basically watching his right
is actually better the stage i guess
yeah i suppose it depends which country
we're in uh but i'm you know i'm
basically watching you from behind so i
have sort of the back view of you to the
crowd so i genuinely felt that every
night that i was part of the show every
night in that sense part of the audience
and i remember you said it one more time
and i thought all right i i have to do
this i have to do this. and that's why
it was always incredibly honest when i
would say to the crowd that that being
on tour with you for every reason that
they were there that you helped these
people change their lives that you did
that to me too but now and i think the
purpose of this conversation
which by the way if you would have said
to me 10 years ago that i'd be having
this conversation publicly first off
that i knew that i'd be married i
wouldn't have believed you that i'd have
be having kids i wouldn't have believed
you that i would be willing to talk
about this or even someone that even
someone that someone else might look to
to help map it for them i'd say you were
completely insane um this is not really
something you know i'd rather talk about
politics i'd rather talk about the
culture wars and all of these other
things this is a political party
because we're trying to sketch out
a pathway i suppose i mean our culture
appears to have decided that
gay marriage is
well i don't know if acceptable is the
right word it's become part of the
structure of marriage itself and so now
the question is okay what does that mean
and that certainly opens up the question
on the
child front because
i mean in in some ways marriage is the
union of two people but in a possibly
more fundamental way it's the union of
two people to provide the foundation for
children right and i would say that's
actually paramount i mean our society
tends to flip that around and we tend to
think of marriage as something that
while you find the partner right for you
and you live happily ever after it's
well no not exactly yeah and but or
maybe maybe exactly if you
also understand that living happily ever
after
means living for other people in many
ways
particularly your children
and so
and then of course that complicates the
issue on the gay marriage front because
as we're going to talk about
it's also more technically difficult to
have children if you're a homosexual
couple right so if you take just the the
marriage part first meaning that two
people are going to choose to share
their life and live together you know
share a bed etc etc
i would say culturally in america we
kind of moved past that i mean trump ran
he's the first first-time president he
was on stage with a rainbow flag it was
you know and nobody cared no i shouldn't
say nobody cared but the enough people
felt okay you let people live the way
they want to to put this down and and
move ahead
but you're right that marriage
has to do with something else otherwise
otherwise the word marriage wouldn't
mean anything it's like nobody really
cares if you live with your friend for
the rest of your life or you live with a
man or a woman you know people people do
this all the time in life and it doesn't
really matter so what really is the
purpose
of really living with somebody and
really being with somebody and sharing
your life with somebody is to build
something lasting something that
i think something that you've learned
and know and we're taught and that you
can hand that on to the next generation
and hopefully they can attain and retain
some of that permanence in your life too
right yeah multi-generational permanent
stretching indefinitely into the future
i mean part of what marriage does
i think technically it's the
psychological equivalent of what sex
does genetically you know if
people mix comedies
to meets gametes games
gametes
partly because to to ensure
variability uh and to stop the
propagation of parasites that's why we
don't clone but there's
that mixing as well
tends to
ensure
that
deviations from genetic health are
minimized
and so the same thing happens on the
psychological affront i would say is
that each person has their own
idiosyncrasies and some of those lead
them down the garden path to terrible
places but if you're with someone else
and you have to negotiate with them
constantly then that opens up the
possibility of you mutually modifying
each other's personalities so that you
both become healthier and that your
joint existence is a kind of can be a
paragon of sorts and then that's what
the child interacts with is that united
front of the two parents right and so
you get that longevity of view which i
think helps to mature you but you also
get the opportunity to become more fully
fledged as a psychological being and
then i think that's furthered as well
i've often thought and said this and i
do believe it's true it's very very
difficult to mature
until you have children and
there are other ways of maturing but
it's hard and the reason it's hard i
think is because
you're not mature
until someone else is more important
than you
and
it's possible that that would happen
with your wife your husband
but not like with children well i've
been thinking about that so you know
we're about to have our first child in a
month and i've been thinking about that
a lot lately like it's just something
that's constantly stirring in my head
that i feel like i've sort of gotten to
the end
of where i can get
mature in my maturation process
not that i can't change or get better at
this or that or something but i do feel
like i'm at the end of one phase right
now i really i very much feel that and i
think i'm feeling it more and more each
day as we get closer to august 22nd
which is the due date um but you know
the first part you know you can you can
take
whether it's a straight relationship or
or a gay relationship
the dance that a couple can do and the
way that they can
mature each other and love each other
and all of those things that that's one
thing but the the peace with the kids
with building this sustainable thing
it's not something that has been
proven in society yet really you know
there obviously are gay couples with
kids
this has been happening for decades but
it really is sort of unseen at the
moment which is why we wanted to have
this conversation and i was like boy i
don't even know that
in some ways i don't know that i'm the
person that's supposed to have this
conversation but maybe that's exactly
why i'm supposed to have
maybe we can talk about exactly
how it came to be that you'll have a
baby in your household in six weeks talk
about what you had to do
to make that happen and
why you made why you made the decisions
that you made
and
what advantages and hazards come along
with that sure so first
technically because there are biological
differences between men and women i
don't want to get us cancelled on
youtube but it actually is true jordan
uh you know we could not biologically
have kids so you know just ourselves
so we just we talked about
adoption for a little bit we did we both
felt that the genetic component of this
was important to us um so for a little
while we debated
uh going with my sister's egg we thought
we'd have two kids that was the the
general thought process in the beginning
and we thought we could uh take some of
my sister's eggs and she's a mother now
she's actually pregnant with her third
uh but that we could get her eggs and
then we would take david's sperm and
then we would have two children from
that
after a long time of talking about a
year debating that back and forth and
going through all that there were a lot
of ethical and moral issues and my my
sister
then would sort of would be the
biological mother of my children i mean
there were all sorts of things that we
were about to traverse right and that's
all uncharted territory right all sorts
of things yeah you think you know how
that might go and you think you know how
it might go if you have good will but
that does not mean that you know how it
will go and i have to say even that
conversation having that conversation
with my sister who was interested in you
know when when we came to her she was
sort of flattered and honored that we
were even considering it but then you
know we said why don't you stay with
this for a little bit and then suddenly
she had a lot of those questions and she
was concerned if you know she shows up
to the birthday party and then feels
this odd jealousy or what if she
suddenly wasn't happy with the way that
we were parenting or that's a big one or
a litany of other things so even going
through that and this this obviously is
not the way that we ultimately went
about it even that was sort of a
maturation process and like you know
what are we really trying to do here so
anyway ultimately we decided to find a
an egg donor i mean basically it sounds
sort of uh glib or something but it's
it's sort of like tinder i mean you can
there are these websites that exist
where the
egg donors are on the site and you try
we tried to find a girl i didn't really
care that much about the pedigree in
terms of did they go to an ivy league
school or anything like that we wanted
to find a girl who obviously was
physically healthy most importantly um
that you know that didn't have major
issues in terms of genetics and all that
sort of stuff that we thought that sort
of looked like the type of girl that we
might be with so i didn't want you know
a six foot five swedish woman let's say
um
and so we have one egg donor meaning
there were multiple eggs and we
fertilized one with david sperm and one
with my sperm and we'll have two kids
right now we have two surrogates that
are pregnant and even talking about this
it's like man i get this is this is all
kind of crazy stuff putting aside
putting aside gay or straight related to
all of this the whole surrogacy thing is
is
it's fascinating that there are first
off women who are willing to to donate
their eggs and you know i i hear a lot
of people we talked about this there's
this criticism of somehow
that you're you're buying the egg and
you're renting the woman yeah the
surrogate yeah
and of course there is a financial
component to it there is i'm not denying
that there is
i can tell you having gone through this
process and and we had a previous
surrogate who had two miscarriages they
were also you know we were doing a lot
of this during kovid and during covet
they were all sort the miscarriage
numbers were through the roof there were
all sorts of weird things the quality of
the eggs wasn't great they don't know
exactly they'll have to study this for
years in terms of what actually happened
but i can tell you that the women who
offer to be the surrogates and who are
offering their
eggs
they are not doing this for the money
there's all sorts of other ways that you
can make money that anyone can make
money they are doing it they are they
talk about that they have this ability
and this gift that they can do um a lot
of them there are some that won't do it
for same-sex couples
because of their own ethical or
religious views um the surrogates that
we found they actually one of them had a
gay brother i mean there were all sorts
of things that they feel that they can
help other people have a family and what
a better gift there is but but all of
that aside all the science and genetics
and all that it leads us to this thing
which i think is the heart of what we're
what we're trying to talk about here
which is so we're going to be a family
with two fathers and and no mothers and
what does that really look like you know
it's very easy to just say okay gay
people should have kids or gay people
should get married and gay people should
just say
it's easy to say an awful lot as you
said it's not that easy for a gay couple
to have kids right so very complicated
so putting aside the if you're going to
go to the surrogacy room putting aside
all the finances and all of that stuff
that eliminates an awful lot of people
from even being able to do it
fortunately we're
able to do it okay
but now it gets us to the to the real
part here which is that now we're gonna
live in a household with two fathers
there's going to be no mother involved
and and what does that really mean
and i understand some of the
reservations well yeah well so we do
know
we do know that
children who are breastfed do better yep
i believe that one year of breastfeeding
is equivalent to i think breastfed kids
have a five point iq advantage and one
point iq is worth one year of education
i have two freezers in my garage two
industrial freezers full of breast milk
right that's right
has done all the research on this right
so another complication but okay and so
and we don't have data we don't really
have data on
motherless children
raised by fathers from infancy right
because it's pretty rare i don't know if
there's literature pertaining to that at
all we do have a literature on
mother-headed families without fathers
and the data there are crystal clear
it's not good to be fatherless now that
doesn't mean that there aren't some
women who are struggling mightily as
single mothers who don't do an
outstanding job but what it absolutely
and 100 percent means that on average
that's sub-optimal and badly sub-optimal
and so
it seems to me that the minimal
stable requirement for
ensuring the psychological health and
financial viability of a child is
something like a nuclear family
structure minimally right so you need a
mother and a father or at least you need
two people one who plays a maternal role
and one who plays a paternal role or
that they split those two seems to be
better than one now how much of that's
linked to sex we also don't know you
know it it seems that
the the
feminine role
is more
slash nurturing you see that with
the proclivity of women to be more
agreeable temperamentally that kicks in
at puberty and so i think that you have
to be accepting
and
nurturing
especially in your attitude towards
infants before they're
mobile so say before six months before
nine months an infant does no wrong it's
100 acceptance
the problem with that is that
that's not true as the child develops
because it has to switch to more of an
encouraging role it's like out of your
dependency into the world and the
paternal spirit
encourages that development now mothers
can do that too but
but roughly speaking women tend to do
the nurturing thing more and men do the
encouraging thing more so now the
question is
how do you mediate how do you
manage to fulfill both those roles
in the absence of
a heterosexual arrangement right so now
naturally we understand that there are
men who are more nurturing and women who
aren't as nurturing and all of those
things now you you know david pretty
well and we've been out to dinner with
tammy many times yeah and you know him
he is incredibly warm and nurturing and
loving and deeply cares about all those
things and i'm telling you he is reading
about skin to skin contact every day
yeah and all of the breast milk stuff
and everything and i know he will have a
huge percentage of the stuff that a
mother would bring but i also know it's
not all of it well he knows the other
thing too is that you guys have to do
that consciously yes right with the with
research in hand and to build up that
proclivity that would be there more
automatically arguably with the mother
and all the
psychological and hormonal
transformations she undergoes and that
transition into
breast milk production and all of that
which is a fundamental transformation in
a woman's biology and her psyche now
you and david have
ample resources at hand financially and
intellectually that enable you to
traverse this pathway
as well as anyone is likely to do it but
it is
very interesting and salutary to hear
you also talk about the complications so
so on the feminine side let's say
you you think you have the nurturance
angle
well covered you talk to me a little bit
about having women around in in your
infant and child's life as well yeah so
david's mom is going to be living with
us for a few months at the start as well
as his sister who's taken care of young
babies already but now i understand that
they're they're not the biological
mother but they will be there you know
we're going to have night nurses uh also
for a few months to help the babies get
on on a normal sleep schedule but these
are all the pieces that we're we're
trying to put together but can we just
back up for one second because i think
before we go too deep into just the
parental part of this there was another
thing that came up when we sort of
roughly sketched out this conversation
over dinner that i think is important
which is that if if you weren't to allow
gay people to either get married and
enter relationships that will last the
test of time or have children to really
last the generations then what are we
reducing these people to
and i think that's a huge part of this
for me um that i think had the world not
shifted to be a little bit kinder had i
not maybe been on tour with you and come
to some of these realizations or found
someone in the world that i wanted to
put their needs above my own
that i could have been left to a life
that would have been sort of purely
narcissistic or self-destructive or
anything you know i used to live well i
don't see how that in some sense i don't
see how that can be
there can be any alternatives to that if
there isn't another pathway forward yes
and and so that's the to me that's like
the unknown road that i'm going down
right now that i want choosing to go
down that unknown road of oh it can be
better than that right i i don't i as i
said i don't have i have two we have two
or three couples that are uh
gay parents that are doing some version
of this but we don't have that model but
then when you know we lived in west
hollywood west hollywood is the gayest
place on earth you know rainbow
crosswalks and the whole thing and to me
i would see these guys that were you
know 65 70 years old that all they had
basically was that they worked out they
spray tanned and got hair plugs they had
their little dogs and they partied on
the weekends and probably chased the
same
sexual
escapades that they were chasing 40
years ago right and it's not adolescence
yeah and it's not it's not a full life
and i actually it's like i feel i have
like almost like a visceral feeling when
i talk about it because i know that that
could have been me so when i see these
people
that either at this point are against
gay marriage but but in general there
are there don't seem to be that many
voices
publicly about that anymore so here's a
rough question so do you think
both the flamboyance now i i want to get
into this in some detail but the
flamboyance that's been historically
associated with the male headers
homosexual community community sorry
about that
and
the
and the promiscuity
do you think to what degree do you think
that both of those are a consequence of
not having a more integrated and
conservative path potentially open in
front of people
i think it's a huge amount that probably
will never be fully explained if people
don't have an ability look what was the
gay rights movement for
in the 70s in new york city and
stonewall and all of those things
it was these people just wanted well
they wanted to be able to get married
that was part of it but it was also that
they wanted to be able to go to a bar
that wasn't underground that wasn't
hidden that wasn't you know this seedy
thing but that's what they had to do
because they were getting raided by the
police and this was going on obviously
in other countries and it was going on
for decades before that
but they wanted some sense of normalcy
if you don't leave people some
little seeds of normalcy then they will
do all sorts of things so the flamboyant
part there's two parts you're asking
about so the flamboyant part i'm just
not built that way i'm not sometimes i
used to you know i used to when i was
first sort of coming out or coming to
grips with myself i actually liked guys
that were kind of flamboyant because i
in my to me it was like oh they're so
who they are
like they had just let go of every sort
of normal cliche or something like that
they're so right they are on that kind
of existential courage yeah and yet yet
they always really like generally gays
they like straight acting that's a
that's a real thing with with gays they
like straight acting so guys always
liked me because i didn't seem gay
whatever that meant and i thought it
sort of meant that i was broken in a
weird way because it made me feel like a
sort of like double freak in an odd
sense right right because i was
struggling here for the straight
community and too straight for the queer
community
well said man uh and and so i was sort
of grappling with that
so there was this there's the flamboyant
part and then and then you're asking
about the the sex side of it it's like
if you don't leave people with some
ability to say oh you can be in a
lasting relationship this is why
marriage equality was so important now
this is a sidebar but i would never
force a church or a mosque or a
synagogue to perform a wedding that it
was against its beliefs but from a
secular perspective
to whatever uh respect we remain secular
in this country if you don't
give people the same opportunity to be
in a relationship and then learn all the
things that you talked about before how
you go through that churning with your
partner and hopefully make each other
better and sometimes make each other
worse and all that stuff
what will you leave them with you will
leave them with their carnal desires and
i definitely could have gone down that
road
with a and i definitely didn't go down
that road
um
rebelliousness
right because
who knows what happens if you're not
allowed so to speak to be who you are
then it strikes me as highly probable
that
an excessive amount of rebelliousness is
going to start to look attractive right
and maybe to be indistinguishable from
courage i would say it's got to be the
case that the hope
so to speak of the more enlightened
conservative types who were willing to
open the door to gay marriage was that
by bringing those relationships inside
the traditional fold that things would
normalize yeah and that there would be a
promotion of something like stable
mature responsible long-term monogamy
well i think maybe i'm trying to prove
that yeah i'm not i'm not trying to
prove it like i'm setting out to prove
it but i suppose de facto because of my
life i'm trying to prove that i mean in
a weird way although i'm probably the
unlikeliest of conservatives in that
sense it's like what life am i trying to
live i'm trying to live a life that is
somewhat conservative in nature in that
sense meaning that i believe that family
is important and probably the most
important thing after the individual
that's that's how societies are built i
fundamentally believe that so it's weird
it's like my my worldview because
otherwise what are you saying to people
so okay okay you're gay so you can
either just
endlessly have sex or endlessly
disregard every norm known to man
and just have nothing other than wake up
and just live life how you want what
other way is there to integrate into
society to really integrate into society
i mean to me this this is it well i
think that's why the culture did take
the decision that it took which was to
open the doors let's say now we talked
about that i want to get into that too
because
the
cl
we have this notion that's rife in our
culture let's say that's insisted upon
that all families are equally are equal
and
i understand
the emphasis on that from the let's call
it the tolerance perspective
but i think that it's badly flawed in
one manner and i think this will be the
hardest thing probably for us to discuss
is that
you can't flatten out distinctions
without a tremendous loss and i don't
think it's possible to dispense with the
ideal
of heterosexual monogamy now as the
ideal yes that's so if we think well
there's an ideal individual who's
responsible and mature and far-seeing
and honest an honest trader a good
player uh an honorable person honorable
decent person and then there's the
minimal requirement for a family that's
ideal and that's something approximating
heterosexual long-term heterosexual
monogamy and maybe you have two decent
people united together and then there's
a firm platform for children now the
problem with that as an ideal is that
we all fall short of the ideal and so
right half 40 of people are going to get
divorced and of the people who don't get
divorced a good percentage of them are
in pretty damn miserable marriages now
that doesn't condemn marriage but it
does
show how difficult attaining that ideal
is and then there's going to be people
who lose their partners and raise
children alone and they're going to be
people who raise children alone by
happenstance or
or choice
and they it doesn't seem reasonable to
what would you say
um
put them outside the bounds of civilized
society let's say that
by the same token it doesn't seem
reasonable to dispense with the ideal
yeah so maybe we need something like
well we know what the ideal is it's a
divine ideal in some sense in that none
of us can live up to it
but then there has to be a space around
that ideal
where
the
individual differences and flaws and
peculiarities and idiosyncrasies of
people
aren't
treated so harshly that that becomes
counterproductive in and of itself it's
damning with faint praise but i don't
see no that's it that's it
that's it it's that's the meat of this
more than anything else that there is of
course there's an ideal of course there
is an ideal there has to be an ideal and
and if well there's nothing to aim at if
there's not a ideal because if if there
isn't if the ideal isn't two people
male and female in a heterosexual
relationship then what is it is it four
people
is it eight people is it one person like
instantly you go from that kind of
narrow ideal to an intense multiplicity
and we've certainly seen the problems
that are associated with that
and so you can't just blow out the
confines of the ideal without
destabilizing well like maybe you
destabilize society at the level of the
family and that seems to me to be a
really bad idea well it's a really bad
idea and i think we're seeing some of
the repercussions of that right now
right i mean we've seen the ex the
excesses of what the woke or the
progressives or whatever that is that
are now destabilizing everything this is
why i've said this i've gotten into
trouble for saying it a few times but
i'm sympathetic to to conservatives who
go boy you know we we let gay marriage
happen and look what's happened since
now now we're into all this gender stuff
and they're literally teaching gender
theory to five-year-olds who know
nothing about gender or sex or anything
else but but the issue really is so okay
so if we have the ideal
really what we're talking about here is
what do we do with these marginal cases
the marginal cases meaning okay so now
this modern question right so but so
what do we really do with that so now
okay so there are going to be gay
couples who want to
approximate to that ideal
so what does a society do does a society
try to help them get there or does the
society just never talk about it push
them to the margins
or
and push it underground right
so what we're trying to do right here is
unearth that a little bit so i don't
deny the importance of a mother
by no stretch as i said we're going to
try to have as many strong female role
models as possible but i don't think it
will replicate a mother by the way when
you talk children are pretty good at
bonding with adults who aren't their
biological relatives what children don't
like is instability in their primary
caregiver they really hate having
primary caregivers swap because their
primary caregiver is their whole world
and so basically if you substitute one
for another
say
six months into the child's life then
it's as if everything the child knows
has been flipped upside down so they
don't like that they're perfectly
capable of bonding with multiple people
though and there doesn't seem to be any
developmental downside to that in fact
perhaps quite the contrary you know i
don't think it's so bad for a child to
have a variety of role models to choose
from and i certainly don't think it's
impossible for you to replicate both the
masculine and the feminine influences in
your children's life i would just say
well it's difficult might be more
difficult even if you're a homosexual
couple but it's difficult if you're it's
difficult
and there are plenty of heterosexual
couples so where
both partners are essentially feminine
in their temperamental both partners are
essentially masculine now we don't know
enough about that to differentiate it
right down to the
ultimate degree but the problem that you
guys will face isn't of a categorically
different type necessarily than the
problem that many couples face
absolutely and there are also when you
talk about the the ideal and then the
way that everyone fits into that ideal
or tries to get to that ideal there are
parents who obviously abuse their kids
or abuse each other and alcoholics and
all these things i'm in no way comparing
being a gay parent to that but the point
is that there is there is an ideal
situation and then there's what society
and then there's reality so it's like
okay so should society stop people who
are alcoholics from having kids or stop
people who or licensed parents after
intensive training right well that's
that's the road that this really would
go down yeah well we've already kind of
decided that too because one of the
things the state doesn't do
is determine who's a fit parent
right and we love rules well it's very
strange in some sense because it's the
most important thing you'll ever do and
yet
while you're not compelled to have an
education for example around parenting
issues before you become a parent and
we've decided everywhere in the world i
would say
maybe without exception that that's one
place the government doesn't go and
that's a very interesting decision for
everyone to have made it's quite
surprising in some fundamental sense i
guess we know that
in that situation in particular
a variety of approaches might be the
best
so
something like that well so i guess i
guess my question for you as i traverse
this is so if we acknowledge
that that ideal situation and again just
using the word ideal i know that there's
a certain set of people that will watch
that go and see reuben's saying his
relationship or he is less than yeah it
isn't right well that's the key part of
dispensing the bloody ideal just because
it's difficult to attain right and and
just because
because we all we all are we all all are
flawed in our own way i mean really who
i think you said this to me at dinner
but it's like who amongst us is walking
around as the ideal partner the ideal
person the ideal the ideal everything
the ideal father ideal anything yeah
yeah virtually nobody is doing that well
if they are then the ideal isn't high
enough because an ideal should be
something that beckons to you from the
distance right it's not something that's
right there in front of you for you to
grip that's not much of an ideal well if
we'd have a lot more people who were
acting that way if it was that easy yeah
i suppose right like there's not a lot
of people doing it so i i think what
what i'm trying to figure out here is
how does that how does this life i think
fit into
[Music]
whatever's coming in this new world you
know we seem to be entering a new world
right now we're watching an old world go
away and we're entering this new world
i'm sort of part of this new
conservative world and kind of where
where does it all fit well so well so
here's a question here's a question
that's relevant to that so it's good
politically and correct question and so
in some sense the the more traditional
community
has opened itself up to the possibility
of including gay marriage
in the purview of
of the acceptable and traditional yeah
okay so what responsibility
come along for people who are
homosexual in relationship to the
expansion of that right
what do you think about that i mean i
know what you've done yeah well i think
it's it's a respect for that it's an
acknowledgement that something is good
there and that we have to
we have to be tolerant of the questions
i i guess that's it
when i see this now suddenly like you
know when when we announced that we were
having kids there was some pushback
online from more religious people on the
right by the way 99 of it was all
anonymous people it was virtually nobody
uh that well certainly nobody that i
knew there were one or two people that
had blue checks on twitter but it was
all these people you know talking about
the sanctity of marriage and all of
these things
but i'm willing to have that
conversation i i accept that this is
yeah i i genuinely accept that this is
this is a little bit weird this is a
little bit you know but it's like if we
don't have these conversations then then
the thing that we're pulling apart by
pulling apart marriage and the family
just by saying it is anything and
everything at the exact same time right
well that is far more dangerous
that's far more dangerous so that's why
even as i'm sitting here now i'm sort of
like ah i partly don't want to have this
conversation because it's like i don't
know the answers to all of these things
but i know that we have to be able to do
it you're supposed to talk when you
don't know the answers because then
maybe you can think it through and you
can exchange views with other people and
you can you can you can expand your
knowledge in that domain of ignorance i
want to go back to something you said
you decided the two of you decided that
genetic similarity was an important
was an important factor to take into
account yeah now obviously that's
issue doesn't arise in the case of
fertile heterosexual couples
it does if they have to adopt or if they
decide to adopt instead um
and we know that people there is a
preference
quite a marked preference although this
might not be so clear with adoption
if you have a step parent
and
you're a child who's not biologically
related to the step parent you're at way
higher risk for abuse like way way
higher i don't remember how many fold
higher but it's it's a tremendous amount
i think it's the single most predictive
risk factor i suppose that would
probably scrap with alcohol use
but
so
people are more positively inclined to
their
genetic relatives now
the exact details of that aren't clear
and it's not surprising if you think
like a biologist that that would be the
case but
but this had to be a conscious decision
on your part and it wasn't a decision
that you guys necessarily had to take so
why did you decide that that was
important
yeah man it's it's one of those things
well you know i also had heard you talk
about
this this part of growing of of
parenting and seeing yourself in this
child and
see your relatives too you see
everything i suppose i think
i don't know that i have a good answer
for this actually but you both decided
we knew it we knew it we knew it when we
decided we didn't want to adopt that we
just knew i don't know what i don't even
know how to describe it yeah there was
something important when we had that
conversation okay are we going to adopt
and we really did think about it it
would have been way easier it would have
been way less expensive and all of those
things yeah it's a strange thing that
that can't be articulated i don't know i
don't know that i can articulate well
you might ask yourself on on on the
similar front it's like well there's
lots of unwanted babies in the world and
so why isn't the ethical thing when
you're a heterosexual couple
just to adjust an unwanted baby
why bring another baby into the world
when there's a baby that could use a
home
and the answer is that isn't what people
do
and then the question might be well why
and you can come up with a biological
rationale but that doesn't mean that
there's a conceptual
a conceptual answer handy like why do
you want your own kids and the answer to
that is something like well that's what
everyone has always done since the
beginning of time it's something like
that right but it's not really an answer
no no
well or take this is part of partly why
conservatives are set back on their
heels so frequently when they're
questioned by radicals because the
radicals will do something like well
justify marriage and the conservative
thinks
well
we all agreed about that like
50 000 years ago and so i don't actually
have a fully fleshed out explicit
rationale and
and defense for the institution of
marriage i thought that was self-evident
and i would say the preference for your
own biological children
has that self-evidence about it there is
a cruelty about that in some real sense
right but i i suppose that's the cruelty
of
specifically loving some people more
than you're capable of loving everyone
else so maybe we just have to accept
that some things are self-evident rather
than
endlessly wonder why they're selfish
well that's what right conservative
would say
well then i suppose i became the most
unlikely conservative of all of all that
it in some ways it doesn't really matter
but i know that it is i know that it was
when we sat there and had that
conversation
when push came to shove we said no we we
want to have if we're having two kids
let's have one from each of us
some of it is look look it's i really
love tammy yeah and it's quite something
to see your echoed in the kids yeah you
know my son it's turned out that
michaela perhaps looks more like me and
julian looks more like tammy but i can
see tammy and him and i'm pretty happy
about that you know and so and i suspect
hopefully she feels the same way on the
other side
so
that love for the person is also echoed
in
their replication in the children and
then there's more than that too because
like when my son was really little
he really like an infant just a newborn
infant he would have facial expressions
that i could see were my dad it's like
oh man he looks exactly like that he has
exactly the same facial expression and
so that echoing of other people that you
love that's not nothing yeah you know
and that doesn't mean that if you adopt
a child you can't come to love that
child as if they're your own clearly
that's possible but that doesn't mean
it's optimal and it doesn't mean it's
easy and without pitfalls and i think
the data on step parents makes that
really clear it's just
part of the reason we talked about this
a little bit too part of the reason that
heterosexual monogamy is the ideal is
because it's also got
you can't beat it in terms of efficient
right you said how difficult it was to
produce a child it's not that difficult
at all if you're two heated up
fifteen-year-olds in the back of your
father's car and you're pretty much
yeah exactly it's like it's like it's as
easy as falling off the bed too easy in
some sense perhaps but but but that also
indicates that ease and efficiency also
is a solid reason why a certain kind of
ideal exists you guys had to jump
through hoops and not everyone could do
that they don't have the resources
and so that that's another obstacle it's
a lot and again without that map without
that
you know that's the interesting thing
for me it's like as i've sort of shifted
politically as you know about and so
much my life has been about politics and
talking about what i think for a living
and then suddenly man all of my
political thoughts all of the the stuff
that i talk about all the time and
government all these things now it's
really like it's all sitting right in
front of me right now the the difference
between your own personal morality and
the way government is and our role in
all of these things um i i
it's like i'm trying to do
i'm trying it's just
the self-evident part of this i'm trying
to do what i know is right right right
right trying to do whatever i do that's
right always explicitly explicitly
explainable
and maybe right isn't the word i'm
trying to do what i know
no i'm trying to do what i'm trying to
do what i know i'm supposed to do how
about that
yeah well that would be good that would
be good to try to figure out what that
is and to walk that path that's a good
thing if you can manage it another thing
we talked about a little bit in relation
decided to discuss today in relationship
to the ideal was
this is also an extremely contentious
issue in case we haven't covered enough
contentious issues already um
as the
and and this goes back to the issue of
the conservatives who took issue with
gay marriage it's like okay we're trying
we're starting to break down the
categorical boundaries here
where is that going to go well we've
seen where it goes at least to some
degree and as i said i'm sympathetic to
this i really am sympathetic to this
argument i see it i see it i see what
they were worried about and
unfortunately the left uh you you
tweeted out something a couple weeks ago
you know i was never a conservative
until the liberals decided there were no
rules yeah i'm paraphrasing you roughly
but i'm sympathetic to that so much of
all of the things that we knew we no
longer know at a societal level
apparently and be and that's
between a man and a woman well we we
could talk about that in relationship
again to use this hated phrase to the
lgbt plus community yeah first of all
the notion that that's an integral
community is foolish efficiently as you
add more and more uh letters i have no
innate knowledge of what it is more
innate knowledge of what it is to be
like to be trans than you do i i happen
i'm male i'm a cisgendered male i am a
man born in a man's body i happen to be
attracted to men you are a man born in a
man's body you happen to be attracted to
women but i have no more in common with
a trans person yeah thank you fact of
marginalization the arguable factor but
that is not that is not a unifying force
that is not something to put on a flag
and say now we are all together because
of this well the question is can you see
that's the theory in some sense is that
the marginalized have more in common
than that what differentiates them and i
yeah i don't buy that well there's a
quasi ethnocentrism and and even a
racism that's associated with that right
the different are categorically
different and they're all and different
in the same way well that's the next
step but but the rubbers really hit the
road in a terrible way recently because
you tell me what you think about this
i followed ken zucker's work on the
trans on trans kids now zucker worked at
a place called camh
in toronto major mental health
institution and he was a mainline
scientific researcher not a political
type at all really a dedicated clinician
and researcher and he ran a gender
dysphoria treatment clinic probably the
clinic and he was the editor of the main
journals where research on that sort of
topic was published and what zucker
his treatment
program for kids with gender dysphoria
was quite straightforward he observed
as a consequence of his careful research
that about 85 of kids who
manifest extreme gender dysphoria so the
sense of discomfort
in their own body and a desire to be
the opposite sex
80 to 85 percent of them would desist on
their own by the age of 18 or 19. and so
his hypothesis was leave them the hell
alone because you do the least harm that
way and most of them will settle into
their bodies as they mature knowing that
puberty in particular especially for
kids you could imagine a male who has a
more feminine temperament and who's also
perhaps higher in openness so has a more
mutable identity more creative
is going to be and and is going to be
especially if higher neuroticism as well
is going to be uncomfortable around
puberty everyone's uncomfortable around
puberty we should we should make that
straight and so you just leave those you
leave the kids alone
but what he also showed
and this is the killer
fact as far as i'm concerned is that
a very large proportion of kids with
gender dysphoria
grow up and are homosexual yes and so
what that means what that certainly
means
is that
the vast majority it might be as high as
80 of the kids who are being convinced
now that they inhabit the wrong bodies
and are being surgically mutilated on a
in a permanent
and
terrible manner
the overwhelming majority of them are
gay
well so think how twisted this is well
just so i know you know this but so
think about it this way so as i said
before i i seem to be people always say
to me i'm more straight acting i seem to
be more you wouldn't just meet me on the
street no i'm not like okay this guy is
gay right so when i was five or seven
when i was growing up or i'm 10 years
old i was playing with g.i joe and
transformers and i liked war and battle
and all of those boy thought of things
now there are plenty of gay kids that
are growing up that like barbie or they
like you know dressing up or whatever
that might be
in today's world the
teacher at the school or the
administrator or the gender expert or
whatever would probably be coaching them
towards saying that they were trans
where they would have left someone like
me alone there would be nothing to think
about so in an odd sense
the trans movement
is extremely anti-gay
that that's something that these people
really have to grapple with there are
gay people who are very effeminate but
they still happen to be men i mean there
is by the way a growing movement in
again that gay community phrase of of
gay people who really are pushing back
on this they're really realizing well
it's the worst part the worst possible
outcome in some sense well because it's
also making it's making right because
it's making gay people all seem like
extremists it goes back to what we
started with so when stonewall happened
and the fight for equality the fight for
equality is just the fight for equality
is always just so black people can vote
so women can vote in my estimation so
that gay people can get married the
fight for equality is good and it's a
true liberal thing to fight for once you
go from that the activists still needed
more and what did they turn that to they
turned that to
the kids the average person who was who
was protesting at stonewall if you would
have said to them you know the average
person that was 35 years old that was at
a bar it said well i want to be able to
go to a bar that has windows maybe that
aren't blocked out that isn't
underground and all of these things and
and be in a relationship that i don't
have to hide whatever
actually 30 years from now 40 years from
now this is going to be about uh sending
your kid to school where they're going
to privately discuss sex with teachers
hormonal transformation and surgery
right and more than that to make and
here's another perverse element of this
so many legislatures around the world
now have banned so-called conversion
therapy and to me this has been a
catastrophe now i know that there is a
small percentage mostly of
fundamentalist christian therapist types
in the u.s who were offering their
services to homosexual people who were
unhappy with their sexual orientation
and so
you could have a discussion about
whether that's ever appropriate or not
although i would say that's bloody well
between the person and their therapist
as far as i'm concerned but now that's
illegal and it's illegal to the point
where
you are required by the uh conditions of
your
psychological association your
professional associations american
psychological association let's say to
affirm the stated identity of your
client which is completely
and also very different affirming the
stated identity of their client of the
client is very different than affirming
that someone happens to be attracted to
the same sex right those are very
different things
then affirming the gender identity if
you're not as a therapist your role
isn't to affirm or to deny it's to
listen
right and to explore that's your that's
your purpose in all your years of
clinical therapy and all the patients
that you ever sorry i'm sure i'm sure
you saw dozens if not hundreds of gay
patients did you ever meet a gay man who
successfully
de-gayed and then went on to live a
completely functioning life
no
i did have a client who was
questioning
who
went the heterosexual route yeah um he
was questioning under some duress
because he was the target of somewhat
unwanted amorous affections by a fairly
persistent gay gentleman who and this
person was
i would say easily swayed and confused
but
that was the closest i'd ever seen to
the situation that you're describing
now this conversion therapy issue is so
now you as a therapist you're ethically
and legally bound not to question the
identity of your the stated identity of
your client which to me is preposterous
because all you ever do as a therapist
is question identity that's the whole
bloody
that's the whole enterprise
and you don't do it affirming or denying
you really don't you do it as a as a
questioner and a strategist
but then we have the other conversion
therapy which is surgical conversion and
that's not only legal but opposing it
has become a crime and so that's a form
of
insanity that
that i just can i can just barely wrap
my head around so so what do we do going
back to the to the conservatives that
were worried yeah that this is where we
were going to end up to in in some sense
i should probably be their greatest hero
because it's like oh here's someone who
wanted to enter
civilized society wanted to affirm most
of the long-fought time-tested ideals
wanted to enter the world with those
things help defend that world um
it happens to be a little different than
than we would think right okay it's it's
two guys i can't deny it
i should sort of be a hero to them it's
it's not the ideal one that they went
for but it's approximately close enough
that this this should be pretty good i
suppose that will be my challenge in
life well maybe that but i also think
that's probably true my suspicions are
that when we release this discussion
that the overwhelming majority of people
will be sympathetic to your situation
and i'm willing to
to render harsh judgment and maybe that
does exclude and we should get to this
too some of the
more fundamentalist religious types but
you also said earlier that as far as
you're concerned
they also have a point there is a point
okay so what's the point well there has
to be a point there because look gay
marriage was legalized i think at a
federal level in the united states in
2015 if i'm not mistaken
so that we're now seven years off of
that and look at all of the craziness
that has happened since i am not
directly connecting it to that but
when you change fundamental structures
some weird things are going to happen
this is again where i would lay most of
the blame here i would lay on the sort
of liberal establishment where nobody
was willing to to defend anything and
it's why the progressives basically were
able to destroy everything the problem
maybe comes is so we had this implicit
idea which we've already discussed which
is heterosexual monogamy
long term
faithful all of that
good will that impossible ideal that
people strive towards and there's a real
boundary there right like a real
boundary it's a man and a woman it's one
man and one woman they're bound together
over the course of their life the
community supports that like it's a
pretty definable box
and then you say
well
we'll let the walls down and so we
include single mothers and we include
gay couples and it's like
yeah but the wall's gone now
so what else do you include and the
answer is
well we don't know
and that's actually not a very good
answer right because what happens is
anyone who knocks can now come in and
you think well that's great because
we're being tolerant but the problem is
well what happens when
all the people in the room who are now
invited in actually
do not agree
at all and so that any of this was ever
good in the first place that's sort of
that's what should be done because you
can imagine now if you have a if you're
dealing with a 10 year old boy who's
who's
or 11 year old boy let's say a little
closer to puberty
who's ambivalent about his sexual
attraction and his sexual identity but
also has a more feminine temperament
which is not rare by the way because
there's a lot of overlap between
masculine feminine temperaments
and now you have to decide well is this
boy
likely to be gay or is he trans
and that's a hell of a decision to have
to make especially when you can't
actually have a real discussion about it
the parents the parents can't and the
clinician isn't allowed to
say what they think or ask in essence
yeah so and then and then especially
when it's accompanied by the pressure
which is a complete bloody lie that well
if you don't let this kid transition
right now
all you're going to do is cause him
more damage you're going to increase the
risk of suicide which by the way i think
is a claim that there is absolutely zero
evidence for zero evidence for we just
don't have even as the american
psychological association admitted we
have no good long-term follow-up data on
the mental health of people who've
transitioned over a reasonable period of
time it just doesn't exist for obvious
reasons it's only just started to happen
right so probably in 10 years we'll have
some beginnings of evidence of it and i
have assuming assuming that we're in a
situation where such evidence could be
collected and discussed in anything
approaching a rational and truly
empirical fashion well as you know you
know deborah so dr debra so who's a sex
researcher i mean she was bringing up a
lot of these issues and basically just
pushed out of the field together well
increasingly the scientific journals the
scientific journals won't publish that
sort of study and look they they they
cut zucker off at the knees man they
threw him out of camh he was the world's
preeminent researcher in the field of
gender dysphoria and he like i said he
wasn't a political guy which is partly
why they could go after him so easily so
he sued the toronto star he sued the
university of toronto newspaper and he
sued camh he won all three lawsuits
so then he has to spend most of his life
suing places of journalism instead of
doing the work he was seriously
cancelled right and and that's a
devastating for someone it's i would say
it's equivalent being canceled in a
serious sense is roughly equivalent to
having a near fatal illness it is no
bloody joke and so yeah so i don't know
if we'll ever be able to gather the
information we need to gather about such
things so it seems to me what we're
talking about here is
with that ideal then what is what are
the levers that we have for sort of
judicious gatekeeping so that the single
mother who really is doing her best will
be welcomed into society or that the gay
couple who wants to be part of what the
ideal is will be welcomed in i don't
know what all the firewalls are on that
i think that's partly what the problem
is right we don't have firewalls
liberals put tolerance above everything
in their hierarchy tolerance is the most
important thing okay we've tolerated
everything now now everyone's in the
house between tolerance and carelessness
is a very difficult one to establish and
if you are careless
especially in your conceptualization and
perhaps in your actions the best mask
for that carelessness is to proclaim
yourself to be tolerant oh
everything goes it's like well that's
because you have zero discipline and
you're you're and you're and no
no ordered conceptualization of the
world whatsoever because of your lack of
discipline now you're going to pass on
all off as a moral virtue and well we're
definitely seeing the consequences of
that especially in the trans issue
i mean it's completely burst forth so
that's why when people say the
lgbtqi i don't even know what i'm not
exactly sure what the q is i have no
idea what the eye is as i said the tease
as our friend douglas murray wrote in uh
in his last book you know when he wrote
his chapter on on the gays the l's and
the and the g's the lesbians and the
gays he separated that from the t
chapter very effectively these things
have nothing to do with each other and
the more that we conflate these things
the more that we're going to be unable
to have any level of this conversation
yeah in a functional manner well and the
conflation is dangerous because the
assumption is
that you know the workers the students
made the same erroneous assumption back
in the 1960s when they allied themselves
with such people as the hell's angels
for example the student radicals it's
like well we're all marginalized we all
have that marxist oppression in common
and that unites us and unite means that
we're aiming for the same thing it's
like well we found out at altamont that
the hell's angels weren't exactly aiming
at the same thing or or maybe they were
you know in some nefarious manner so the
mere fact that and it's it's also
clearly the case that the more people
that you aggregate on the margins and
then it attempt to bring into the center
the less likely you're going to get some
homogeneous viewpoint and you might
think well we don't need a homogeneous
viewpoint but we certainly do if it
comes to such things as surgical
transformation of children who are more
likely to be gay so then what do you
think that what do you think my role in
that could be or people like this
conversation
right because this is uncharted
territory like you literally are in
uncharted territory and your attitude is
something like
well i'm already deviating a lot from
the norm
and so maybe i should not deviate any
more than i absolutely have to and i
would also say that should apply to
everyone yeah everyone's got their
idiosyncrasies and thank god for that
and we definitely need creative people
and we even need some creative weirdos
you know because god only knows when
they'll come in handy but the rule of
thumb should still be
to the degree that you're able to uphold
the norms and ideals of the collective
society you have a moral obligation to
do that you know i wrote in my first
book and i think it was an idea i sort
of morphed off saying peter thiel once
said to me that uh that straight people
spread the genes and gay people spread
the memes meaning it's obvious the genes
part is obvious how straight people
multiply but gay people why did why did
so much culture and art and music and so
many interesting things about societies
wherever gay people are why are the
artists always living around the gay
people why why is that the place where
all all the kind of weirdos and marginal
people are and then that creativity is
burst forth from that so how do you
combine those things how do you take
that it might be you know
so
we know that that intense creativity is
a trait right it's a temperamental trait
so you can be very intelligent you can
have a high iq and be low in creativity
intelligence is a good predictor of
creativity but they are somewhat
separable
so then the question is well what does
what is creativity
and some of it is mutable identity like
a creative person the more creative you
are the less you're the same from moment
to moment hour to hour and day to day
but almost by definition right you're a
shape shifter and a changer a trickster
and
and the the the boundaries of conception
that bound you
are much looser if you're creative and
so it's possible that like it's very
difficult to account for homosexuality
from a biological perspective right
because you would assume that if
anything was going to be disappear in
the course of sequential reproduction
the inability to reproduce would be at
the time of mathematician right
clearly clearly clearly and so what that
has to mean it has to mean something
like
there are reproductive benefits to some
of the factors that tilt towards
homosexuality that are so powerful that
they counterbalance the negative
consequence of being able to unable to
reproduce and it might be it might be
that
a fair bit of that manifests itself on
the creativity side you know because
create and i would say that the kids who
are most likely to be
we studied at harvard i never did
publish this uh for a variety of reasons
um when cutting and piercing first
became popular
um
i was very curious about whether or not
that was a marker for psychopathology
right for for for the proclivity towards
mental illness and before it became
popular it was a subculture thing right
it was carnies and circus types like
marginal people prisoners it was a real
subculture art form piercing and and
body modification and then all of a
sudden it went mainstream and the
question is well who were was on the
forefront of its
introduction to popular culture so we
studied a whole bunch of people this was
very early on in that process to try to
find out if they showed signs of mental
illness or if it was a consequence of
temperamental variability and what we
saw was that there was no sign
whatsoever that it was associated with
mental illness it all loaded on openness
so if you were more creative
more mutable
more able to shift shape let's say and
perhaps more likely to
and i don't know i don't think there's
any data on this if if people who are
high in openness are more likely to show
some signs of same-sex similar
attraction wouldn't surprise me at least
because it sort of sounds right well
their conceptual boundaries are that the
boundaries are thinner and more porous
so it could easily be the case so it
could be
they oh if there is an overlap there
with creativity that would explain the
genetic tilt that would keep
homosexuality in the population but it
would also explain what does especially
on the male homosexual front there does
seem to be an axis of creativity there
and so
it is the case that well certainly at
least by stereotypical reputation
there is a higher proportion of gay
people among the creative types than you
would expect so so to go into really
dangerous territory then if we haven't
done it so far i mean does what you're
saying right there sort of show you why
they're going after kids right now so
the the idea is they're going after kids
because they're grooming them and i
think a lot of people think that means
they're grooming them for sex i'm not
exactly sure that's right i think
they're grooming them for something more
perverse in a way
if you want to hear the rest of my
conversation with mr dave rubin please
go to dailywireplus.com
and become a member today
thanks